I thought what you said was pretty
interesting that the most unhappy you've
been in your life was when there were
these transition periods where you were
pursuing something you really were
ambitious about and then something
happened
so that you could no longer pursue those
ambitions and you were trying to figure
out what's next yeah so to me I can
relate well I graduated in 2014 a degree
in English and since then I've just been
trying to figure out what I want to do
with that degree and so I can relate to
that unhappiness being an ambitious
person and not knowing where to go next
it's very painful basically because you
feel like you have you have this
potential and it's being wasted so in
the last video we just recorded I
mentioned in passing that I felt the
most unhappy in my own life the greatest
misery I experienced tended to be in
times when I was separated from having a
clear sense of ambition and purpose in
my life so Melissa was just responding
to that by saying that that's something
she stole what four years now about how
many years basically since you finished
your BA or during your BA right during
the VA - mmm yeah because the VA is in
English right yeah original goal right
right and then you know look I mean it's
no joke but Amino soso already once you
would switch your major to English then
you were in this trap of saying well
what career can I have and how can I
make a positive difference in the world
and what's my future going to be what's
the meaning of life given that I'm an
English major and you basically right
question now jumping ahead right now
ironically you've ended up in one of the
very few career paths that does value
your English degree and where you are
valued as a scarce form of labour being
an English teacher in Asia teaching
English to Chinese people
but just as ironically you're completely
aware that this isn't your career this
is this is just my transition yeah and
this is a time that a lot of people that
I talk to they say it'll be a great
experience for me
hmm but it it's also a little bit
strange feeling like you're in limbo
nothing like this is not really going
yeah yeah even though it is a good
experience even though I'm happy well
look I mean financially and otherwise I
think the only justification for being
here doing this is one's own education
so I mean you have already picked up
quite a few words of Chinese without
generally studying Chinese
he said formerly instead of formally
without formally said it's both are true
though she is neither formally normally
study Chinese but you know you are you
are adding Chinese words your vocabulary
week and for me also I'm just practicing
coping and communicating in Chinese day
in and day out but I think there is
absolutely no other justification I even
felt that when I was in Taiwan it was
like basically if you're not here as a
student you shouldn't be here as a
teacher to put it in a nutshell right
well I agree like teaching ESL for you
at least it's not a career I'm not going
to say for is like it's not a career for
anybody there's somebody on planet earth
firma really as their career but you
know one of these is inviting her to
come over
I said you many times it look you don't
have to choose say Chinese it's a choice
I just think you should learn enough so
that you understand the choice you're
making you know if you close the door in
Chinese and say not for me
fine I totally respect that decision but
yet then no one else to understand you
know what the what the advantages and
disadvantages are what what decisions
make what you have to understand the
opportunity you're missing the
opportunity of passing out right but
what so look but let's see Lola really
you said there's a feeling of being cut
off from something from a real ambition
or real direction right
but right now back in the States you're
not you're not cut off or something no
you didn't have a career but yeah sorry
it's just it's not only she quit you
know being a heart surgeon of the
hospital or something you didn't write
and if you if you quit your job now
we're trying to move back to States
there's really nothing there in terms of
career or education they also speed up
the GUP right
yeah no offense yeah
none taken since I graduated I was
taking classes for speech-language
pathology that is something that I've
been interested in so I could pick up on
that and apply for graduate school but
that is something that I've been
ambivalent about and not willing to
commit I could have committed a year
after I graduated well I didn't
fundamentally decided that yeah yeah
sure of the world yeah well he loves us
so did this feel and being cut off was
like I can talk about exactly what I
feel cut off from and I said this to
another professor day I was sorry
another professor on the bus on the way
back from work on my back from
University I just said to him straight
up
I feel cut off from politics that in
Canada I can participate in politics
including vegan politics especially
interested in though anything Human
Rights politics war politics City Hall
politics you know the politics over
whether or not the mayor is going to
build a new bridge like we have you know
this small politics of that as well as
global politics and I said to him which
is not lying I said here in China you
know I respect that this is your country
I don't pretend to be involved in
Chinese politics you know I keep my
distance which is both wise and
appropriate you know if you're a
foreigner living in China it's it's not
your it's not your fight it's not your
you know it's not your quarrel but sure
I feel like here just just today I got
an email from one of my students so one
of my students at university who just
started watching my youtube channel and
I sent her the link to one of my videos
that is indeed about veganism I mean
unlike that video I didn't send her a
video but something else and she was a
gay I'm enjoying your channel that as
far as I go you know like I tell people
verbally I'm vegan here but there's no
there's absolutely no prospect for
activism but in terms of career I mean
is that the feeling of being cut off I
mean is that what is your open end I
don't know because the political side of
it or even even ecological just talk
about ecology right everywhere else in
China is
an ecological disaster except like dil
Hong and Hainan Island we're in one of
the wall cave is also breath we're one
of the only places where the air isn't
so polluted that you want to hang
yourself I was today one of my students
said that she goes jogging every day
this is in the in class you know
speaking English and she wants to in the
future continue doing this I said yeah
but after you go back to your hometown
what if you go back to any major city in
China
whichever major cities once you leave
this special place the home you can't go
jogging psychologically impossible but
you know the air is not breathable right
same in Beijing same in so many places
right the ecology is issues issue in
Canada I can be involved with ecological
issues here on campus here I can just
stand mute notice that's something to be
cut off but in terms of career in terms
of career or education or both what is
it you think you're cut off from like
for six months in China the Western
world yeah speaking English yeah you
actual community like I said being
involved your politics in the next in
one location sure like I am I hope that
we do move to Canada I don't think
that's generally the plan but I I hope
too so that there's a home base you know
okay I guess I guess we have we've had
very different life experiences like you
know you haven't had a lot of anchors
you've been you've been traveling around
for a long time well let's see what's
interesting is just before she said that
she started terrible Canada I was
thinking the exact opposite because you
were you were talking about being built
being cut off from Western civilization
cetera and then you said over again when
you're saying that it's like you know
what I think it's because Canada is so
bleak that I don't feel that way because
in Canada the quality of education is so
low my experience of education is just
terrible the economy is so bleak but I
don't feel like I'm cut off from
opportunities because in Canada in my
experience there's just no opportunity
and I completely concede like the accent
is the same but if I lived in California
that wouldn't be my perception at all
right like in a lot of ways California
is more dangerous than
but there's also real opportunity there
are elite educational institutions like
somebody's getting a great education in
California Stanford or some crap you
know I know you know there are at least
a few universities that are great at a
few different things right and in Kant
my experience in Canada is none of that
so like whether it's now in China or
before in Cambodia or something I can't
say I feel like I'm cut off from any
kind of opportunity there because I know
and I'm burdened with the knowledge this
last time going to Canada
I really felt morally obliged partly at
a curiosity or partly up of a moral
obligation to open every door and look
under every rock for every opportunity
so I actually went to the job fairs I
actually went to the door key like apply
for an internship events and I went
through all the paperwork and to give an
example I went through the whole list of
every single scholarship you could apply
for us there's a scholarship in sense of
an award or bursaries and went into all
these offices you know like the guidance
counselor offices that people never go
into and there's a separate guidance
counselor office for international
opportunities and that like there's all
this crap I actually went there and did
that stuff and I came away from it like
mind blown like wow my crappy ignorant
prejudice has been a hundred percent
confirmed as right there's nothing there
are no open doors there's nothing under
that rock I'm missing nothing here this
is just a country and in Victoria BC
visit this is just a country dominated
by a small class of aging millionaires
you know retired wealthy people and you
know there's a younger generation here
for whom the only opportunities in life
are real estate or dealing cocaine which
is why rap music is impart oh and
there's there's nothing else going on
you there's nothing there's nothing that
I'm gonna miss it so I mean you went you
went to an elite University in the US
right you went to U of M I mean it says
a review as a worldwide is you know they
get ranks on the top ten list on the top
100 list it's considered a great
university and it's of course it's
expensive Canadian universities are
cheap and
pretty crappy in general you know uh and
in America right now unemployment is
less than four percent in Canada it's
about seven percent you know same period
of time and everything there are all
these different in Canada the only
economy we've got is gold and oil and
diamonds you're just reading about this
you know raw resource extraction and we
really do have an aging population we
really are dominated by elderly
retirement retired people you know
because because of my degree I feel like
I have to get some further education
sure that's why I feel like at this
point being cut off from the Western
world is it's a great opportunity I'm
very grateful
I love living here with you she's
wonderful yes but sure it feels like
sure a six-month window before we sure
get to the real issue
look at that burns at me every day that
absolutely does that absolutely does and
I felt that way you know but I'm a very
ambitious person again I was talking
with out with a professor today I tell
you that all the time
so no and you know okay but for me there
were other ambitions and coming here
that I've been cut off wrong so real
real quick when I first moved here for
one thing I assumed I'd be able to buy
property I thought I'd be able to open a
business so I thought I could open a
vegan restaurant here right or some
other business right I thought I could
open a hotel here some of you guys you
know me personally know that like if
you're talking to me like a year ago
starting my opening Hotel in China or
elsewhere in Southeast Asia so I there's
there straight-up business ambitions
that seem possible here and now find out
that's that's impossible that's actually
not possible to pursue here but in terms
of language work humanitarian work and
research I originally signed up to come
here for like five years we thought we'd
do a three-year contract to kick it off
and then I wasn't just going to be
studying Chinese I was saying Chinese
and Burmese and northern Thai languages
like the Hong die or tiny these
languages that very very few white men
have ever studied or ever spoken and
languages that are in
aged in civil wars on the Burmese border
possibly jing pole gin pole aka catch in
these are languages very very few white
men have studied and that are really
politically interesting cultural
interesting in storage so for me there
was in terms of my ambition when I made
the decision to move here when I made
the decision to buy this iPhone which is
very unlike me right I thought I was
here for a five-year bid with at least
three languages involved you know as
just mentioned and a lot of politics and
a lot of history a lot of potential to
humanitarian work and potential for
business and someone and then only after
I was committed after I got here and I
thought about not signing the contract I
thought about walking out it was
basically like the day I signed an event
no it's like a 10 month gig and then you
go back to Canada and that's it that
basically none of that was possible now
I think I think I actually made the
right choice taking the middle path on
this staying for 10 months you know for
less than a full year I think I did make
the right choice for a bunch of reasons
including the situation my parents were
in the situation my daughter is in like
for me there are other factors sure but
I mean I remember when I had only done
this job for three weeks
it was just burning at me it was like
you know like after three weeks it was
like this isn't you know mentally
demanding enough you know what I've got
I've got to start studying Mohawk in my
spare time you know I've gotta start
studying Iroquois or something you know
what I mean it was just for it wasn't it
was enough for me in terms of my
humanitarian ambitions
research research ambitions and so on
because I was here just doing journeys
but the truth is as you've seen Chinese
is an incredibly difficult language just
to be convergent in because I'm not
talking about mastering Chinese I never
never in speak fluent speaker but you do
need to be forced to take a year and
just drill you know even even when I'm
teaching using the same words again
again and teaching Chinese and so on
it's absolutely it's absolutely what
interested what was good for me in terms
of my my language development and future
in those ways and it's as I said other
factors like my parents and my daughter
and stuff I think it was it was a good
decision in other ways too but no it's
not this is not the decision I would
have made if I had known them
and yeah I say that all the time here
are used Chinese word a Yi shin and
yishun doesn't really mean ambitious it
means I'm ambitious to a fault I'm like
self-destructive like ambitious and I
think that's that's true of me although
my ambitions of nothing doing money but
look I mean it's great it's great to
hear your optimism but when you save
that stuff before that back in Canada
you can be part of a community even for
a political movement or some kind of
future in terms of education and career
and kind of some to me like you know
that's that's what I don't I don't feel
there's anything like that I left by on
Canada and when you're looking at the
map you look at Victoria BC right across
the water is Seattle you can take a boat
you can take a ferry there they're very
very close together
Seattle impotency and you got an
American passport you got the right to
work in the States I think anyone with a
shred of ambition would be in Seattle
instead right what you know what it
inches therenow week nor it all the
advantages Canada is not ruled by Donald
Trump Canada is not bombing Syria and
Yemen and there are differences servant
in in Canada University tuition is about
five thousand dollars not fifty thousand
dollars there are differences there
absolutely are there are advantages Kent
has but in terms of just exactly what
you said now you said it having a
community or being involved in politics
or any of those things when I go when I
go that candidate the chill of Canada
not just the temperature but the
hollowness of that culture and just just
what a dead end it is for anyone with
ambitions that's what I'm going to feel
and I don't know maybe maybe oh maybe
you'll see the bright side maybe you'll
change my mind the annals yeah or I can
move across the border to see you know
but yeah babe I mean you know I wasn't
saying that in reference I've only lived
in one state like one
yeah generally the same place you know
within an hour drive so I was just
saying I'm looking forward to actually
having like something normal
sure okay sure normal to me sure but I
mean I you know you universities they're
not
it's the ultimate joke that they're
really just not set up to help someone
in your situation in my situation even
though it's such a common situation it's
not that bizarre it's not that odd you
know and like I you know it's not like a
blame-the-victim kind of thing but in
the past I could at least say well I'm
studying something obscure I'm studying
lotion I'm studying poly I'm studying
curry or a jib way so I can recognize
the one I'm doing is marginal but now
it's Chinese and the University of
Canada are just as bad the juice is
incapable now that I'm in a mainstream
subject but you know they have
professors foreign scholarships for that
they're supposed to be set to handle and
everything is just at that but if you
want one brief example from the States
you know you are you notice I got one
offer to go study at Stanford California
I once got in touch with University of
Hawaii University of ye is a very famous
University in some categories U of H
right not not if not especially for team
sports I think not especially for
basketball but they are really famous at
some including including linguistics you
know and University of Hawaii I said I'm
serious love this is my background these
are my credentials if I sign up to do
and it may in PhD with you guys what
education you're not provide me with and
they wrote back did the honest to write
back and say nothing you know you'll get
a library card and you'll do your own
research and you'll teach yourself a
language and you know you'll end up with
a PhD and it's going to cost you like
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars
like I don't even but like you know you
can look it up like when you add up I
know I know but that's how it is in a
lot of fields of study you're really
just paying for the opportunity to go to
the library and educate yourself and
then that is it you know there's there's
nothing else so that's what I say you
look behind these doors you look up for
me and looking at every opportunity
a possibility and a lot of time is
there's nothing behind that door
the conventional path of Education and
career has nothing to offer you
and that's what people you mean melissa
is mature for age you were looking at
all these really technically driven
disciplines you were looking at
science-based disciplines hands-on
disciplines and careers with you know
verifiable skills I was - you know it
was partly out of a sense of disgust at
what you know the arts and humanities
the more creative fields
it was sense of disgust of what they
could and couldn't offer me yeah how
dare you refer to Hong as limbo